TO DO
1. meeting with paul wong
2. look over paul wong phylosophy lectures and recommendations
3. finish my tableax graphs about the NDIS and include them inside this assignment.
4. build my own repeatable process as a cybernetician for notation, reflection, inference, analysis, communication, ideation.
5. 


NOTES
2. realised my references i found myelf were in semester 2 references
3. realising that I actually was learning backwards to come to my idea for the project. 
    3a. new ideas (theoretical framings and extensions)
    3b. saw the system, 
    3c. then the actors and connections 
    3d. and then the device itself.
4. Paul wong mentioned regulation in class, which made me think about how i am keenly aware of regulation, all the time because of how my body does not!
5. how do we cross these systems divides/gaps and capture the feedback of the people who fall short of these systems and make it worth their while to reach out. if they aren't included, they aren't included.


ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY:

Anderson KE (2010), ‘Storytelling’, Chapter 28:277-286 in 21st Century Anthropology: a Reference Handbook, edited by H. James Birx, SAGE Publications, Incorporated, 2010. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/anu/detail.action?docID=1995303
Chapter summary: Anthropology, storytelling and the importance for culture, connection and understanding. 
Chapter main argument: The collection of stories is an important part of anthropological fieldwork (p. 28), 
Critical Analysis (what are the weaknesses): passive consumption (less critical thinking by audience, 
How I will use this in my own research: could we use it as an empathy building device? and also to gain a small quantity of lived exptertise samples to compliment qualitative data?? to help communicate the data with feeling. anonymise and share their story? To explain why the research is needed and create understanding, to keep people engaged, to not lose the individual inside the statistics, to use narrative to highlight the lived expertise that comes from the individual experience of unaffordance. 
Quotes: "Create a marriage of emotionally connected research and intellectually open, exploratory story telling" (Sobol, Gentile and Sunwolf 2004) on p.284

Anderson KE (2010), ‘Storytelling’, Chapter 28:277-286 in 21st Century Anthropology: a Reference Handbook, edited by H. James Birx, SAGE Publications, Incorporated, 2010. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/anu/detail.action?docID=1995303
Chapter summary: Anthropology, storytelling and the importance for culture, connection and understanding. 
Chapter main argument: The collection of stories is an important part of anthropological fieldwork (p. 28), 
Critical Analysis (what are the weaknesses):
How I will use this in my own research: To explain why the research is needed and create understanding, to keep people engaged, to not lose the individual inside the statistics, to use narrative to highlight the lived expertise that comes from the individual experience of unaffordance. 
Quotes: "Create a marriage of emotionally connected research and intellectually open, exploratory story telling" (Sobol, Gentile and Sunwolf 2004) on p.284


Assignment 4: CYBN6001 – FRAMING QUESTIONS
Hall.Nicola.CYBN6001.Assignment4.ResearchProposal2026.pdf
Research Proposal
Word limit: 4000 words
 

This semester is all about exploring, understanding, and questioning the building blocks of cybernetic systems 
(including cyber-physical systems). 
It is not necessarily about providing answers to problems. 
It presents an alternative and critical way into cybernetic system analysis and design. 
Components of cybernetic systems —
including sensing, data, networking 
—will be explored through framing of a range of questions about them, 
as well as how changes in the design or limits of these aspects will shape system behaviours. 

You will be exposed to a range of methods for uncovering, presenting, and analysing 
many of the human decision-making processes and human-made and environmental constraints 
that are inherently present in these components, their interactions and the potential consequences.

Employing appropriate methods to frame relevant questions and analysing the impacts of different responses in the system 
are key skills required by practitioners of cybernetics. 

This assignment is designed to support students to strengthen these skills.

You might consider using this assignment as your first exploration of a research proposal 
for the Advanced Master thesis or a Ph.D thesis.

You have a maximum word limit of 4000 words. This includes titles, section headings, and in-text citations 
but excludes the Acknowledgements and Bibliography sections.

 


the brief
You will work individually on this assignment, but you are expected to consult other members of the cohort for inspiration and feedback.
You are advised to consult your course convenor once you have a first draft of your assignment.

A Research Proposal 
defines and outlines a research problem or questions 
rather than summarizing the main points of view or making a particular claim. 

Affordance on pathways within systems of support(NDIS)/education(ANU)/employment(Defence) for neurodivergent people 
and how to capture the people who don't even make it that far.

- NDIS (systems socioeconomically exclude the peolple who need diagnosis to get in, sexism disadvantage etc. etc.)
- DEFENCE (backward AGSVA systems discriminate against neurodivergent people, who don't socially 
appear right or miss our because of current methodologies or bad research and stigma or self- selecting out)
- EDUCATION ANU (not offering opportunities for neurodivergent people to do uni at higher levels in times scales or patterns that suit the neurodivergent mind. AND also badly designed systems, illinformed support services)
- EDUCATION TAFE ( advertising the wrong way. go into hairdressing classes and show them that they are using sequential logic for colour theory and maybe they will like coding)

It asks questions without answering them. 

How does our storytelling as a society on different levels influence people perception and opportunities?

and should relate to a named and described cybernetic system that interests you.
The Cybernetic Systems That Interest Me Are:
NDIS SYSTEM
DEFENCE EMPLOYMENT SYSTEM
TAFE/UNI PIPELINE SYSTEM

These questions can be asked about languages and perspectives, purposeful composition and storytelling, 
cybernetics and cyber-physical systems, sensing and acting, data and networking, algorithms and learning, 

 
Part 1 Critical Review (approximately 3,000 words)
Select three methodologies or other appropriate bodies of literature from the MACYB program’s resources lists. 

For example: scales, levels and boundaries, affordances analysis, storytelling (speculative histories, futures, histories analogy), 
Bell’s 6 Big Questions (3As & 3Is), actor-network theory analysis, chaîne opératoire, feminist critiques, semiotics and embodiment theories.

Produce a critical review of each of the three methodologies (see guide). 

Address some or all (as appropriate) of

Methodology 1: Scales, Levels and Boundaries: 
Objectives: what does the methodology set out to do?
Theory: is there an explicit theoretical framework? If not, are there important theoretical assumptions?
Concepts: what are the central concepts? Are they clearly defined?
Argument: what is the central argument? Are there specific hypotheses?
Method: what methods are employed to test these?
Evidence: is evidence provided? How adequate is it?
Values: are value positions clear or are they implicit?
Conclusion: a brief overall assessment.

Methodology 2: Centralised vs. Decentralised vs. Distributed:
Objectives: what does the methodology set out to do?
Theory: is there an explicit theoretical framework? If not, are there important theoretical assumptions?
Concepts: what are the central concepts? Are they clearly defined?
Argument: what is the central argument? Are there specific hypotheses?
Method: what methods are employed to test these?
Evidence: is evidence provided? How adequate is it?
Values: are value positions clear or are they implicit?
Conclusion: a brief overall assessment.

Methodology 3: Theorising Affordances: From Request to Refuse OR Design Thinking/Theory
Objectives: what does the methodology set out to do?
Theory: is there an explicit theoretical framework? If not, are there important theoretical assumptions?
Concepts: what are the central concepts? Are they clearly defined?
Argument: what is the central argument? Are there specific hypotheses?
Method: what methods are employed to test these?
Evidence: is evidence provided? How adequate is it?
Values: are value positions clear or are they implicit?
Conclusion: a brief overall assessment.


Part 2 Research Proposal (500-1000 words)
1. Select a cybernetic system for analysis:
The NDIS welfare system from the perspective of neurodivergent participants with lived expertise.
OR
The ANU Disability Services System. 

2: Describe it.

3: Write a short and concise Research Proposal (see definitionLinks to an external site.) 
that:
You are not required to answer your questions. You are required to pose them.
The analysis should be presented in a professional and easy to read format.
Please ensure you reference your sources in-text,      according to Monash Harvard referencing standards 
as demonstrated on your course Resources List and provide an appropriate Bibliography.

3.1 Identifies three research questions about your chosen cybernetic system 
(these can be the three questions you display on Demo Day if appropriate to your Maker Project).
3.2 Explains why the research would be necessary and beneficial, and to whom.
3.3 Explains how your three chosen methodologies might be used to explore these questions.
3.4 Considers how the results of the research might be evaluated.
 

 

 

Acknowledgements Section (this does not fall within the 4000-word limit)

You must include an Acknowledgements Section. Failure to acknowledge someone or some system (e.g. Grammarly, ChatGPT, Copilot, Claude) that has helped you in your work may be construed as plagiarism. See the guide to Academic Integrity on the Canvas page.
You are encouraged to consult other cohort members to provide inspiration and feedback on the iterations of your work. These contributions should be acknowledged in the Acknowledgements section, although close copyediting and re-working of another student’s work or external party is not allowed.
If you make use of Generative AI, you must include the following in your Acknowledgements:
Details of all prompts entered into the GenAI.
Details of all replies provided by the GenAI that you have included in your assignment.
An explanation of what facts, information, evidence or other data was gleaned from the GenAI and why this was necessary to use GenAi for the production of your assignment instead of carrying out your own primary research.
A demonstration of your fact-checking process that confirms the accuracy of the information provided by the GenAI.
A record of attribution: this is a comprehensive explanation or a table that details which elements of your work you produced by yourself and which elements were produced or aided by GenAI. This is now a standard requirement for journal publications. Some GenAI systems will do this for you, so this is an opportunity to learn how.
A verifiable calculation of the carbon emissions generated by your use of the GenAI in your assignment.
A verifiable calculation of the industrial water usage of the GenAI system in the production of your assignment.
A statement detailing the intellectual property rights of the authors and creators that your GenAI has used as sources.
Your Acknowledgement Section does not count towards your 4000-word limit. It is considered additional.
 

Bibliography

You must include a Bibliography section. A bibliography is an alphabetical list of all the resources Monash Harvard cited in the text. If a resource is not cited in the text, it should not be included in the Bibliography.
Your Bibliography does not count towards your 4000-word limit. It is considered additional.
 

 

 

 

the ASSESSMENT PROCESS - GRADING RUBRIC
This assignment will be graded using the Grading Rubric below that requires the subjective judgement of the assessors. This assessment follows the standard ANU grading system for social sciences, and has been aligned to meet internal ANU, Australian University and Government (TEQSA) expectations, including evaluation of a number of the required learning outcomes for the course.

Please note that some lines may be more important than others in assessment depending on the nature of your work.



Course Learning Outcomes

LO1.
Evaluate the key concepts encompassed in cybernetic systems research

Understood and critically evaluated appropriate resources.

LO3.

Apply a range of techniques, tools and resources to framing questions in a creative and innovative manner about cybernetic systems

Understood, considered, and analysed appropriate methodologies in relation to a cybernetic system.


LO5.

Communicate cybernetic methodologies to a diverse range of audiences and stakeholders.

Communicated in a professional and easy to understand format. Referenced sources in-text and in bibliography.

Appendix - A Typical Format:

Before embarking on your Critical Review, you are advised to construct an Annotated Bibliography. This is a note taking exercise. See the ANU Guide.

 

Title: Research Proposal for Case Study X – a Cybernetic System

(choose a cybernetic system)

Part 1. Critical Literature Review (of the 3 Methodologies).

You will have taken notes of the reading resources for each of your three methodologies. Now develop and synthesise those notes into a long-hand review discussion of each methodology. Ask yourself some or all of the questions below.

Methodology 1 – Scales & Boundaries (for example)

            Objectives: what did the articles set out to do?

Theory: is there an explicit theoretical framework to the methodology? If not, are there important theoretical assumptions?

Concepts: what are the central concepts? Are they clearly defined?

Argument: what are the central arguments? Are there specific hypotheses?

Method: what methods are employed to test the arguments?

Evidence: is evidence provided? How adequate is it?

Values: are value positions clear or are they implicit?

Conclusion: a brief overall assessment and explain why this methodology is appropriate for your Research Proposal.

           

Methodology 2 – Actor Network Theory (for example)

Objectives: what did the articles set out to do?

Theory: is there an explicit theoretical framework to the methodology? If not, are there important theoretical assumptions?

Concepts: what are the central concepts? Are they clearly defined?

Argument: what are the central arguments? Are there specific hypotheses?

Method: what methods are employed to test the arguments?

Evidence: is evidence provided? How adequate is it?

Values: are value positions clear or are they implicit?

Conclusion: a brief overall assessment and explain why this methodology is appropriate for your Research Proposal.

 

Methodology 3 – Technological Affordances (for example)

Objectives: what did the articles set out to do?

Theory: is there an explicit theoretical framework to the methodology? If not, are there important theoretical assumptions?

Concepts: what are the central concepts? Are they clearly defined?

Argument: what are the central arguments? Are there specific hypotheses?

Method: what methods are employed to test the arguments?

Evidence: is evidence provided? How adequate is it?

Values: are value positions clear or are they implicit?

Conclusion: a brief overall assessment and explain why this methodology is appropriate for your Research Proposal.

 

Part 2. Research Proposal

            Pose a proposal / identify a problem for research/ pose some questions.

            Outline your chosen cybernetic system. Describe it.

Use your three methodologies to think about the cybernetic system. What questions can you ask? What tests could you devise? What kind of explorations could you embark upon?

If you were to write a 20,000-word thesis about this cybernetic system, what would you investigate?

Use your imagination and express yourself.

You are asking interesting questions. You are not trying to answer them here. That is for later.

 

Acknowledgements   This is essential. Reread the Brief before you submit your assignment.

Bibliography   This is essential. Reread the Brief before you submit your assignment.

Scales & Boundaries (for example)

Biedermann, Thomas. 2026. F3 Lecture: Sales, Level, Boundaries. Canberra, ANU SOCY. SLB ResourcesLinks to an external site.

Carr, E. Summerson & Lampert, Michael. 2016. ‘Introduction’, in Pragmatics of Scale. Berkley, UCal Press.

Moore, Adam. 2008. ‘Rethinking scale as a geographical category’. Progress in Human Geography 32(2) (2008) pp. 203–225.

Tsing. Anna Lowenhaupt. 2012. ‘On Nonscalability’, in Common Knowledge 18 (3):505-524.

See also Critical Systems HeuristicsLinks to an external site. for some others.

 

Actor Network Theory (for example)

Perriam, Jessamy & Lenton, Ash. 2026. F5 Lecture

Latour, Bruno. 1996. On Actor Network Theory: a few clarifications.

Murdoch, Jonathan. 1998. The Spaces of Actor Network Theory.

Baron, Luis Fernando & Gomez Ricardo. 2016. The Associations between Technologies and Societies: The Utility of Actor-Network Theory

 

Technological Affordances (for example)

Davis , J. L. 2020. How Artifacts Afford. MIT Press.

Davis, Jenny and Chouinard, James. 2016. ‘Theorizing Affordances: From Request to refuse’

Volkoff, Olga & Strong, Diane. 2017. Affordance theory and how to use it in IS research.

 
